Original Article
Proceedings of Singapore Healthcare
Volume 34: 1–6
© The Author(s) 2025
Article reuse guidelines:
sagepub.com/journals-permissions
DOI: 10.1177/20101058251396713
journals.sagepub.com/home/psh
Impostor phenomenon in neurology
trainees peaks at commencement of
residency
Zhibin Tan1,2, Wai Dic Foong1,2, Nara Tiara Sugianto1, Yi Rong Chiew3,2,
You Jiang Tan1,2, and Shih-Hui Lim1,2
Abstract
Background: Impostor phenomenon, characterised by self-perceived incompetence and inadequacy, has adverse effects
on career progression and psychological wellbeing. While it is prevalent in various medical specialties, its prevalence in
neurology is unknown.
Methods: Anonymous surveys were conducted among neurology trainees and junior neurologists over two windows
across two major campuses in Singapore. The ﬁrst window recruited incoming neurology residents (R0). The second
window recruited neurology residents enrolled in any year of training (R1, R2, and R3) and junior neurologists (specialists
practising within the ﬁrst 2 years of accreditation). The second window included the same respondents from the ﬁrst
window. The Leary Impostorism Scale (LIS) was used, with a score of 15 indicating moderate or severe impostorism.
Results: The ﬁrst window recorded ﬁve out of a possible ﬁve responses. The second window recorded 14 out of a possible
23 responses. The median LIS score started at 21 (interquartile range, IQR 15-25) among R0 residents, peaked at 28 (IQR
22-28) among R1 neurology residents, before declining to 15.5 (IQR 14-16.3) among R2 residents and 11 (IQR 10-16)
among junior neurologists. No responses were received from R3 residents. There was a signiﬁcant difference between the
median LIS scores of each level of training (Kruskal-Wallis H = 10.398, p = 0.015). 10 out of 14 respondents (71.4%) had
moderate or severe impostorism.
Conclusions: Impostor phenomenon is pervasive among neurology trainees and junior neurologists. Further studies are
needed to investigate the impact of impostor phenomenon on neurology trainees and to identify means of mitigating it.
Keywords
impostor, imposter, phenomenon, neurology, residency
Introduction
Impostor phenomenon (IP), also known as impostorism, is a
behavioural health phenomenon characterised by a self-
perception of incompetence and inadequacy, leading to
pervasive feelings of self-doubt, anxiety, depression, and a
fear of being exposed as a fraud in their work.1 It was
originally described in high achieving women, but is now
known to affect men as well.2,3 Importantly, IP is also
common among junior healthcare professionals; A previous
review reported a 33%–44% prevalence of clinically sig-
niﬁcant IP among resident trainees.4 The prevalence of IP is
likely to vary geographically and between different medical
specialties. For example, one study reported that 94% of
young neurosurgeons in Europe exhibited signs of IP.5 IP
has important consequences for career progression and
1Department of Neurology, National Neuroscience Institute - Singapore
General Hospital Campus, Singapore, Singapore
2Neuroscience Academic Clinical Programme, SingHealth Duke-NUS
Academic Medical Centre, Singapore, Singapore
3Department of Neurology, National Neuroscience Institute, Singapore,
Singapore
Corresponding author:
Zhibin Tan, National Neuroscience Institute - Singapore General
Hospital Campus, 1 Hospital Boulevard, Singapore 168581, Singapore.
Email: zhibint@gmail.com
Creative Commons Non Commercial CC BY-NC: This article is distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 License (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/) which permits non-commercial use,
reproduction and distribution of the work without further permission provided the original work is attributed as speciﬁed on the
SAGE and Open Access pages (https://us.sagepub.com/en-us/nam/open-access-at-sage).
psychological wellness.6 In addition, it is associated with
burnout in the medical profession.7
Despite its potentially far-reaching consequences, IP
remains poorly understood. If the literature on IP among
healthcare practitioners has been scarce, it is virtually
non-existent for neurologists. The psychological welfare
of neurology trainees in Asia is of particular concern,
since Asia has a disproportionately low neurologist-to-
population ratio which heightens the impact of attrition
and burnout.8
Methods
We conducted a cross-sectional cohort study by anony-
mously surveying incoming and enrolled neurology resi-
dents, as well as junior neurologists from two major tertiary
hospitals in Singapore.
In the Singaporean context, the completion of post-
graduate year 1 (PGY1) followed by a 3-year internal
medicine residency is a pre-requisite for joining the 3-year
neurology residency programme. The 3-year internal
medicine programme includes a solitary and continuous 3-
month rotation in neurology, to be completed in the ﬁrst or
second year of the programme. Upon graduation from
neurology residency, one will be certiﬁed as a specialist in
neurology. In this study, a junior neurologist (JN) was
deﬁned as a neurologist practising within the ﬁrst 2 years of
specialist accreditation.
To assess for the presence of signs of IP, the Leary Im-
postorism Scale (LIS) was used; this is a seven-item English
survey scale that has been validated as a measure of IP with
high internal reliability, signiﬁcant positive correlation with
the longer Clance Impostor Phenomenon Scale (CIPS), and a
low respondent burden.9–11 The range of possible scores is 7-
35, with any score above 7 suggesting some degree of IP, and
with a higher score indicating stronger IP features in the
respondent. A score of 15 or more was taken to indicate the
presence of moderate or severe impostorism, since a re-
spondent ﬁnding the majority (at least four) of the seven items
on the LIS to be ‘moderately characteristic’ for him/her-self
would score at least 15 points.
The survey was administered digitally via an encrypted
virtual platform created by a Singaporean government
agency. The survey was advertised, by means of text
message broadcasts, as a brief and optional one-minute
survey. To maintain anonymity, the survey collected only
the respondent’s year of training in neurology in addition to
the LIS, omitting their names, sex, and ethnicities. The year
of training in neurology was deﬁned by the grade of resi-
dency seniority of the resident (R1, R2, or R3) rather than
the number of years spent in training. An optional free-text
ﬁeld was available for the respondent to provide narrative
comments on IP in neurology.
The surveys were administered over two windows. The
ﬁrst window recruited incoming neurology residents (R0) in
June 2024, the month before they commenced neurology
residency. The second window recruited enrolled neurology
residents in any year of training (R1, R2, and R3) and JN
from July 2024 to Oct 2024, including the respondents from
the ﬁrst window who had now assumed their appointments
as neurology residents.
Data from the collected responses were analysed using
SPSS software (version 26.0, Chicago, IL, USA). The
Kruskal-Wallis test was used to study independent variables
in groups of two or more.
Results
In the ﬁrst window, responses were solicited from ﬁve
R0 residents and ﬁve responses were received, with the
median LIS score being 21 (interquartile range, IQR 15-25).
In the second window, responses were sought from a total
of 23 prospective respondents (comprising ﬁve R1 residents,
eight R2 residents, three R3 residents, and seven JN phy-
sicians), and 14 responses were received. The median LIS
scores for R1, R2, and JN were 28 (IQR 22-28), 15.5 (IQR
14-16.3), and 11 (10-16) respectively. No responses were
received from R3 residents.
As a group, the median LIS score for all enrolled neu-
rology residents (R1 and R2) was 20 (IQR 16-28). When JN
were included, the median LIS score was 16.5 (IQR 12-
21.5). The lowest LIS score recorded was 9 from an JN
respondent, whereas the highest LIS score was 30 from an
R1 resident. Table 1 shows the mean and median LIS scores
by year of training.
There was a signiﬁcant difference between the median
LIS scores of each level of training (Kruskal-Wallis H =
10.398, p = 0.015). Figure 1 shows the boxplot of median
LIS scores and their IQR.
Moderate or severe impostorism was found in eight
(88.9%) of the nine enrolled neurology residents (R1 and
R2), and two (40%) of the ﬁve JN respondents. Table 2
shows the breakdown of moderate or severe impostorism by
year of training.
Table 1. Mean and median Leary Impostorism Scale scores for each year of training. IQR, interquartile range; JN, junior neurologist (a
specialist in neurology in the ﬁrst two years of specialist accreditation); LIS, Leary Impostorism Scale; R0, incoming neurology resident; R1,
ﬁrst-year neurology resident; R2, second-year neurology resident; R3, third-year neurology resident.
Year of training
n
Mean LIS score
Median LIS score (IQR)
R0
5
20.4
21 (15-25)
R1
5
25.6
28 (22-28)
20 (16-28)
16.5 (12-21.5)
R2
4
14.75
15.5 (14-16.3)
R3
0
Null
Null
JN
5
12.6
11 (10-16)
2
Proceedings of Singapore Healthcare
Only two respondents provided narrative comments. One
R2 resident expressed gratitude for the “nice and forgiving”
culture in the neurology department, which alleviated
feelings of inadequacy. Another R2 resident opined that the
transition from internal medicine resident to neurology
resident required the navigation of a “steep learning curve”,
which was compounded by the “long gap” between their
neurology rotation in internal medicine residency and the
commencement of neurology residency.
Discussion
Our study provides important insights into IP in neurology
trainees and in junior neurologists.
First, IP was more pervasive among ﬁrst-year neurology
residents (R1) than among incoming neurology residents (R0).
Since the ﬁve R0 and ﬁve R1 respondents in our study were the
same respondents answering the same survey questions sep-
arated by a brief interval of only one to 3 months, it is likely that
the start of neurology residency exacerbated IP.
A plausible explanation for the above observation is that
increased exposure to neurology expands a resident’s
metacognitive ability to recognise his/her own deﬁcits and
knowledge gaps. Daily exposure to neurology would likely
help new R1 residents identify blind spots in their knowl-
edge, transferring knowledge gaps from things they did not
know existed, to things they know exist but which they do
not yet comprehend. As suggested by the Dunning-Kruger
effect, this would likely narrow the gap between self-
perceived ability and actual ability, but the resulting cor-
rection of self-perceived ability is likely to intensify feelings
of inadequacy and hence IP.12
The narrative comments recorded also suggested additional
explanations for the aggravation of IP during the transition
from R0 to R1, which may be speciﬁc to the local structure of
residency programmes. The promotion from internal medicine
resident (also known as a ‘junior resident’ in the local context)
to neurology resident (‘senior resident’) carries an increased
weight of expectations and a wider scope of responsibilities.
Beginner’s uncertainty about one’s capacity to fulﬁl these
expectations and responsibilities may deepen IP. We also
acknowledge that the long latency between a resident’s earlier
neurology rotation during internal medicine residency and the
subsequent commencement of neurology residency may ag-
gravate IP. A previous study showed that the current level of
Figure 1. Boxplot of Leary Impostorism Scale scores, showing the median, interquartile range, and range of scores at each stage of
neurology training. LIS, Leary Impostorism Scale; JN, junior neurologist (a specialist in neurology in the ﬁrst 2 years of specialist
accreditation); R0, incoming neurology resident; R1, ﬁrst-year neurology resident; R2, second-year neurology resident.
Table 2. Number of respondents with moderate or severe
impostorism, as indicated by a Leary Impostorism Scale score of 15
or more, for each year of training. JN, junior neurologist (a
specialist in neurology in the ﬁrst two years of specialist
accreditation); LIS, Leary Impostorism Scale; R0, incoming
neurology resident; R1, ﬁrst-year neurology resident; R2, second-
year neurology resident; R3, third-year neurology resident.
Year of training
n
LIS score ≥15 (%)
R0
5
4 (80.0)
R1
5
5 (100.0)
8 (88.9)
10 (71.4)
R2
4
3 (60.0)
R3
0
Null
JN
5
2 (40.0)
Tan et al.
3
neurology teachings in a Singaporean internal medicine pro-
gramme is already inadequate to instill conﬁdence in managing
neurological conditions.13 An internal medicine resident’s
period away from neurology, which can last for one to two
consecutive years before the commencement of neurology
residency, may further weaken a resident’s recollection of any
teachings received, hence further eroding conﬁdence.
The narrative comment about a “nice and forgiving” culture
alleviating IP symptoms may have suggested that institutional
and departmental cultures can signiﬁcantly inﬂuence the
prevalence of IP among neurology trainees, and that the effect
of such cultures can be perceived by individuals. Previous
studies have shown that high performance pressure predicted
more intense impostorism across different professions.14 Fur-
thermore, a competitive work culture exacerbates IP by en-
couraging a self-threatening form of social comparison with
high-performing colleagues, internally highlighting contrast
between oneself and one’s colleagues instead of fostering as-
similation in the workplace.15 Although the narrative feedback
we collected was limited in quantity, it may encourage im-
provement of modiﬁable work cultures, in order to ameliorate
culture-imposed performance pressure and strengthen work-
place collaboration over competition. For example, the nor-
malizing of experiences through peer-support groups and
availing of mentor support are examples of interventions that
have been proposed as organisational means of mitigating IP.16
Another insight gleaned from our study was that IP
abated with increasing grades of residency seniority. This
was an expected ﬁnding, given that progression within the
residency programme is dependent on documentation of the
necessary levels of competence, and greater competence
instills greater conﬁdence in one’s own ability. It is likely
that among more senior physicians, symptoms of IP would
be less prevalent. For perspective, one study of family
medicine residency programme directors found only 20%
scoring 15 or more on the LIS.17 In contrast, 71.4% of our
cohort, who were considerably more junior physicians,
scored 15 or more, though it is uncertain how much of the
difference may be accounted for by differences in the
practice of family medicine and neurology.
Finally, our study suggests that IP is pervasive among
neurology trainees and junior neurologists in Singapore. The
high prevalence of IP among neurology trainees and junior
neurologists should be of particular concern in Asia because
of the low neurologist-to-population ratio in Asia, which
contains only 20% of the world’s neurologists despite
constituting 60% of the world’s population.8 IP predisposes
sufferers to multiple risk factors for burnout, and thus can
potentially exacerbate manpower shortages. Individuals
with IP are at greater risk of employing avoidant coping
strategies (such as giving up, denial, or even substance
abuse) as opposed to active coping strategies (such as
seeking emotional support).16 This puts them at greater risk
of emotional exhaustion because avoidant coping strategies
tend to only provide temporary relief.16 In addition, persons
with IP tend to attribute negative events to internal causes,
and hence expend more emotional resources toward im-
proving
their
performance,
further
compounding
the
problem of emotional exhaustion.18 Emotional exhaustion is
a prominent dimension of burnout which, among physi-
cians, is associated with absence from work, changing to
part-time work, an aversion to call duty, early retirement,
and leaving the practice of medicine.19
Our study had several limitations. Our ethical commit-
ment to keeping the survey anonymous, to avoid the risk of
workplace stigma and prejudice against the residents who
responded, meant that we could not collect more granular
data from the small pool of potential respondents, such as
age, sex, and the number of years spent in training. This
limited our ability to conduct deeper analyses. For instance,
while we found that IP waned with increasing grades of
residency seniority, we were unable to investigate the re-
lationship between IP and the total time spent in neurology.
This is a point of interest, since an inverse relationship may
suggest that longer rotations in neurology prior to the
commencement of neurology residency can help alleviate IP
in R1 residents.
As our survey was optional, our response rate of 61%
(14 out of 23 potential respondents) in the second window
exacerbated the problem of a small sample size. This may have
created selection bias in our results. It is possible that the
extremes of the IP spectrum (from either end) prevail within the
non-respondents, potentially causing their disinterest and
hence non-response. For instance, we received no responses
from ﬁnal year (R3) residents. This may have simply been an
artefact of the small number of potential R3 respondents at the
time of the survey (there were only three of them to invite).
However, it is also possible that R3 residents, being at the cusp
of completing their training, may have had a heightened
awareness of their knowledge gaps, greater concerns about
disclosing psychological vulnerabilities, and a smaller appetite
for reputational risk (especially given the small R3 cohort size
which can increase the risk of identiﬁcation despite our efforts
at anonymisation).
While lengthier questionnaires have been employed to
diagnose different dimensions of IP, the dimensionality of IP
remains unclear.20 Since it has also been suggested that IP may
be a unidimensional construct, we utilised the LIS and its
brevity as a means of identifying IP with minimal respondent
burden.21 However, unlike the more widely used CIPS, the LIS
does not have any suggested cut-off score for the diagnosis of
clinically signiﬁcant IP.22 We attempted to mitigate this
problem by deﬁning moderate impostorism using an LIS score
of 15 or more, as explained in our Methods section.
We have provided important insights into a hitherto
unexplored area of neurology trainee wellbeing in Asia.
Future research should focus on detailing the impact of IP on
neurology trainees. Furthermore, studies are needed to
design and validate interventions aimed at mitigating IP in
ﬁrst-year neurology residents, who are the worst afﬂicted.
Based on our study ﬁndings and hypotheses, the following
interventions may be explored: (1) Courses and workshops
to equip incoming neurology residents with the skills needed
to cope with the scope of responsibilities fulﬁlled by a
‘senior resident’, (2) scheduling neurology teachings or
rotations closer to the start of neurology residency, and (3)
mitigating competition between trainees by setting up peer-
support groups and availing mentorship support.
4
Proceedings of Singapore Healthcare
Conclusions
This study suggests that impostor phenomenon is pervasive
among neurology trainees, and peaks at the commencement
of neurology residency. More research is needed to delineate
its impact, and to ﬁnd means of mitigating impostorism.
Acknowledgements
We would like to acknowledge the respondents who participated in
this study for contributing to our understanding of impostor
phenomenon among junior neurologists.
ORCID iDs
Zhibin Tan https://orcid.org/0009-0001-4413-708X
Wai Dic Foong https://orcid.org/0009-0005-6383-3768
Nara Tiara Sugianto https://orcid.org/0009-0000-7247-7244
Yi Rong Chiew https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5426-3621
You Jiang Tan https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0091-5599
Shih-Hui Lim https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1420-0970
Ethical considerations
Ethical approval for this study was waived by the SingHealth
Centralised Institutional Review Board because this study in-
volves only educational tests, surveys, interviews or observa-
tion of public behaviour (CIRB Ref 2024-3604). This study was
conducted in accordance with the principles set out by the
Declaration of Helsinki.
Consent to participate
Informed consent was not sought for the present study because the
need for written consent were waived by the SingHealth Cen-
tralised Institutional Review Board. In accordance with the study
protocol submitted for exemption, all participants were informed
that the survey was optional, and that responding to the survey was
taken to be an implied agreement to publish their anonymised data
in scientiﬁc journals.
Author contributions
TZB conceptualised and designed the study and was involved in
the acquisition and analysis of data, interpretation of results, and
drafting and editing of the manuscript. FWD, NTS, and CYR were
involved in the acquisition and analysis of data, interpretation of
results, and editing of the manuscript. TYJ and LSH supervised the
project, and were involved in the analysis of data, interpretation of
the results, as well as editing of the manuscript.
Funding
The authors received no ﬁnancial support for the research, au-
thorship, and/or publication of this article.
Declaration of conﬂicting interests
The authors declared no potential conﬂicts of interest with respect
to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.
Data Availability Statement
The dataset generated and analysed during the current study is
included in its supplementary material.
Supplemental Material
Supplemental material for this article is available online.
References
1. Bravata DM, Watts SA, Keefer AL, et al. Prevalence, pre-
dictors, and treatment of impostor syndrome: a systematic
review. J Gen Intern Med 2020; 35(4): 1252–1275.
2. Clance PR and Imes SA. The imposter phenomenon in high
achieving women: dynamics and therapeutic intervention.
Psychol Psychother 1978; 15: 241–247.
3. Feigofsky S. Imposter syndrome. HeartRhythm Case Rep
2022; 8(12): 861–862.
4. Gottlieb M, Chung A, Battaglioli N, et al. Impostor syndrome
among physicians and physicians in training: a scoping re-
view. Med Educ 2020; 54: 116–124.
5. Zoia C, Stienen MN, Zaed I, et al. The prevalence of imposter
syndrome among neurosurgeons in Europe: an EANS YNC
survey. Brain Spine 2024; 4: 102816.
6. Clance PR and Otoole MA. The imposter phenomenon: an
internal barrier to empowerment and achievement. Women
Ther 1987; 6: 51–64.
7. Freeman J and Peisah C. Imposter syndrome in doctors be-
yond training: a narrative review. Australas Psychiatry 2022;
30(1): 49–54.
8. Tan CT. Neurology in Asia. Neurology 2015; 84(6): 623–625.
9. Leary MR, Patton KM, Orlando AE, et al. The impostor
phenomenon: self-perceptions‘ reﬂected appraisals‘ and in-
terpersonal strategies. J Pers 2000; 68: 725–756.
10. Freeman KJ, Houghton S, Carr SE, et al. Measuring impostor
phenomenon in healthcare simulation educators: a validation
of the clance impostor phenomenon scale and leary im-
postorism scale. BMC Med Educ 2022; 22(1): 139.
11. Martin J, Gonsalvez CJ, Pickard JA, et al. Factor analysis of
the Leary impostorism scale in professional psychology
trainees. J Psychol Couns Sch 2024; 34(4): 451–461.
12. Kruger J and Dunning D. Unskilled and unaware of it: how
difﬁculties in recognizing one’s own incompetence lead to
inﬂated self-assessments. J Pers Soc Psychol 1999; 77(6):
1121–1134.
13. Tan YJ, Juliana KYL and Manohararaj N. Conﬁdence in
neurology: how educators can help junior doctors ﬁght
Neurophobia. SE Asian Jnl Med Educ 2022; 16(2): 30–37.
14. Feenstra S, Phillips F, Begeny CT, et al. Are you better than
me? Competitive work climates fuel impostorism via upward
social comparisons. Soc Psychol Personal Sci 2025. DOI: 10.
1177/19485506251348803.
15. Bielenberg C, Ibrahim F and Herzberg PY. The impact of
workplace environment on the impostor phenomenon among
early career starters. Curr Res Behav Sci 2025; 8: e100175.
16. Hutchins H, Penney L and Sublett L. What imposters risk at
work: exploring imposter phenomenon, stress coping, and job
outcomes. Hum Resour Dev Q 2018; 29: 31–48.
17. Gopal B, Fortenberry KT and Coskey O. Impostor phe-
nomenon among family medicine residency program direc-
tors: a CERA study. Fam Med 2023; 55(8): 553–558.
18. Hutchins HM. Outing the imposter: a study exploring im-
poster phenomenon among higher education faculty. New
Tan et al.
5
Horizons in Adult Education and Human Resource Devel-
opment 2015; 27(2): 3–12.
19. Hasan TF, Turnbull MT, Vatz KA, et al. Burnout and attrition:
expanding the gender gap in neurology? Neurology 2019;
93(23): 1002–1008.
20. Mak KKL, Kleitman S and Abbott MJ. Impostor phenomenon
measurement scales: a systematic review. Front Psychol 2019;
10: 671.
21. Simon M and Choi YJ. Using factor analysis to validate the
Clance impostor phenomenon scale in sample of science,
technology, engineering and mathematics doctoral students.
Pers Individ Dif 2018; 121: 173–175.
22. Holmes SW, Kertay L, Adamson LB, et al. Measuring
the impostor phenomenon: a comparison of Clance’s IP
scale and Harvey’s I-P scale. J Pers Assess 1993; 60(1):
48–59.
6
Proceedings of Singapore Healthcare
